You don't want to walk into the gym on
day one and try and deadlift 300 lb. So,
when someone comes to me and they're a
first-time entrepreneur and they say,
"I'm going to make the next great AI
company." I think that is the
equivalent. I feel like you've actually
started and run more companies than
maybe anyone else in the world. What is
your best advice for coming up with a
great startup idea? Charlie Mer, Warren
Buffett's longtime business partner, has
this amazing quote, "Fish where the fish
are." The biggest mistakes I've made
have been going into business models
where other people have repeatedly
failed and thinking, "I can do this
better." It's so funny to watch you on
Twitter. Clearly, you've become AI
obsessed. It's like having the world's
most reliable employee who costs $200 a
month and works 24/7. So many knowledge
work jobs are going to change massively.
I think the fundamental question is, do
all jobs just become a single prompt?
Today my guest is Andrew Wilkinson.
Andrew is the co-founder and CEO of
Tiny, a holding company that's often
called the Berkshire Hathaway of the
internet. They own over 40 businesses
ranging from dribble to we commerce to
the Aeropress coffee maker. And they
focused on buying profitable businesses
from founders and holding them for the
long term. Andrew and his co-founder
bootstrapped the business from zero to
hundreds of millions of dollars in
value. And Andrew personally was worth
over $1 billion at one point. In our
wide-ranging conversation, we cover a
bunch of strategies for coming up with a
good business idea, what common business
ideas you should avoid, his experience
automating much of his work and life
using AI and what that means for
employment in the near future. Also,
what he's learned about happiness and
money and how they are not directly
related and also how getting diagnosed
with ADHD and then taking SSRIs was the
thing that most impacted his happiness
in life. This is both a powerful and
also a very tactically useful
conversation and I'm really excited for
you to hear it. If you enjoy this
podcast, don't forget to subscribe and
follow it in your favorite podcasting
app or YouTube. Also, if you become an
annual subscriber of my newsletter, you
get a year free of a bunch of amazing
products including Bolt, Linear,
Superhum, Notion, Perplexity, Granola,
and more. Check it out at
lennisnewsletter.com and click bundle.
With that, I bring you Andrew Wilkinson.
This episode is brought to you by Sauce.
The way teams turn feedback into product
impact is stuck in the past. Vague
reports, static taxonomies, unactionable
insights that don't move business
metrics. The result turn lost deals miss
growth. Sauce is the AI product co-pilot
that helps CPOS and product teams
uncover business impact and act faster.
It listens to your sales calls, support
tickets, churn reasons, and lost deal
surfacing the biggest product issues and
opportunities in real time. It then
routes them to the right teams to turn
signals into PRDS, prototypes, and even
code that drives revenue retention and
adoption. That's why whatnot, Linkree,
Incident, IO, and ZIP use SAS. One
enterprise uncovered a product gap that
unlocked $16 million ARR. Another caught
a spiking issue and prevented millions
in. You can, too, at s.app/lenny.
Sauce, built for AI product teams. Don't
get left behind.
This episode is brought to you by
Interpret. Interpret is a customer
intelligence platform used by leading CX
and product orgs like Canva, Notion,
Perplexity, Straa, Hinge, and Linear to
leverage the voice of the customer and
build best-in-class products. Interpret
unifies all customer conversations in
real time from Gong recordings to Zenesk
tickets to Twitter threads and makes it
available for your team for analysis and
for action. What makes Interpret unique
is its ability to build and update a
customerspecific knowledge graph that
provides the most granular and accurate
categorization of all customer feedback
and connects that customer feedback to
critical metrics like revenue and
seesat. If modernizing your voice of
customer program to a generational
upgrade is a 2025 priority like
customer- ccentric industry leaders like
Canva, Notion, Perplexity, and Linear,
reach out to the team at
interpret.com/lenny.
That's e n t e r p re t.com/lenny.
Andrew, thank you so much for being
here. Welcome to the podcast. Oh, thanks
man. Great to be here. I've been wanting
to chat with you for so long. There's so
much that I want to talk about. And I
want to start with a topic that I know
that you think a lot about and that's
also on the minds of a lot of people,
which is coming up with a great startup
idea. And uh this is something that a
lot of people are thinking about right
now because AI makes it so easy to
actually build your idea into something
real. And I feel like this is something
you spent a lot of time thinking about.
I feel like you've actually started and
run more companies than I don't know
maybe anyone else in the world. I feel
like you're in the top 100, top 10,
something like that. I don't know. Does
that feel right? I've definitely had a
lot of experiences and I've probably
started or been involved with
75 different projects or businesses
where I've been a primary contributor.
And I wouldn't say that's anything to
brag about because I've been an inch
deep and a mile wide. Um, so that's been
in a lot of ways kind of my Achilles
heel is I get too excited about ideas
and I start too many businesses. But as
a result, I've seen almost every
business model under the sun. Amazing.
Okay. So yeah, I think the benefit is
for us is we get to learn from your
experience. So let me just ask you this
question. What is your best advice for
coming up with a great startup idea?
Ultimately, the best thing is something
you're going to be interested in. But I
think a mistake a lot of people make is
they choose something that everything is
everybody is interested in. So, for
example, they say, I I don't know anyone
that has had the thought, man, I would
love to start like a really cool
restaurant or, you know, I want to have
a cool cafe or something. And what in
reality, what they think about is how
cool would it be to come up with a an
amazing logo or, you know, all the fun
stuff, design the lo the menu and stuff.
But in reality, operating those
businesses is miserable. And it's also a
very hard business because every morning
millions of people wake up and they go,
I should start a cafe. But on the flip
side, almost nobody wakes up every
morning and says, you know what, I'd
love to start a funeral home or I would
like to start a pest control business or
I should start software that helps
people fill out forms for the
government. And Charlie Mer, Warren
Buffett's longtime business partner, has
this amazing quote. He says, "Fish where
the fish are." And he gives this
example. He says, "You know, if you're a
fisherman and you see a large pond and
all around the pond there's a whole
bunch of fishermen and they're all
elbowing each other out of the out of
the way. They're all using the best
lures, the best fishing line. Uh, you
know, they all have amazing strategy.
You actually want to walk off into the
forest and find a small fishing hole
with lots of fish and very little
competition. And I think that's probably
the most important thing in business is
actually to find those niches where you
can actually make real money because
competition equals lower margin. The
more competitors there are, the lower
your prices have to be and the more
competitive the business is. Ultimately,
it doesn't feel uh intuitive to go after
small markets and to find niches. So,
let's just follow that thread. Well, why
is that actually a source of some of the
best ideas starting really small and
niche? I don't necessarily think it has
to be something that is small forever,
but it has to be something that like I
think about if if you're a first-time
entrepreneur or a student or something,
you don't want to walk into the gym on
day one and try and deadlift 300 lb,
right? So when someone comes to me and
they're a first-time entrepreneur and
they say I'm going to make the next
great AI company or you know I'm going
to launch uh a new bank or something
like that something that is very very
rigorous and complicated and highly
competitive and regulated. I think that
is the equivalent. I think you really
want to take the baby weights and start
slowly building your muscle. And I think
about my own experience starting a
business. I was so lucky because the
first business I ever started, my web
design agency, which became Metalab,
that was so easy and it worked. It
worked immediately because all I had to
do was know how to build websites and be
able to talk to potential customers and
then once they said, you know, yes, I
will pay you $5,000, I just had to send
them an invoice, do the work, and that
was it. It was a very simple business.
And because of that, I got immediate
positive feedback. And I built my own
narrative. And my narrative was, I'm
good at business. I can do this. Keep
going. And then I went off and I started
taking my money uh that I made from that
original business. And that's when I
[__] up. So I went out and I started a
pizzeria and I lost all my money. I
started a designer cat furniture
business, a online DJ school, uh a skin
cream business. all of these things, I
just lost all my money almost
immediately. But because I had that
first win, I kept on going. And I just
think it's so critical that people
choose a business where they get that
initial win. Okay, this is a great
topic. This is just like how do you
avoid creating a job for yourself you
hate. There's a lot of business
opportunities and ideas that like, yeah,
you can make this work and then you work
and then you're stuck doing this thing,
running a restaurant. Uh my wife tells a
story where a friend started a coffee
shop and then he's like, "I thought I
was starting a coffee shop, but I'm just
uh replacing milk and buying milk all
day. That's my job now." So just kind of
along those lines to help people avoid
creating a beast that they didn't
expect. Any advice for just how to know
this is maybe even though this may work
and make money, you probably don't want
to be spending your life doing this sort
of business. So like I just started a
pressure washing business. I was
speaking at a local business school and
after I spoke, one of the kids walked up
to me and he said, "Hey, I'm an
entrepreneur. I've started two or three
businesses in the past um doing
landscaping and I'm not enjoying
school." And so, just on the spot, I
said to him, "Why don't you drop out and
we'll start a business together?" And
I'd kind of been cooking on this idea of
a pressure washing business because I'd
studied that industry a little bit and I
knew a few friends who' done it in other
cities. And I had this unfair advantage
which is I owned a whole bunch of media
properties where I could advertise it
for free basically. And so uh we started
this business and and I think for him he
kind of had this moment of do I really
want to be washing people's driveways
for the rest of my life? And what I said
to him is, look, if this gets to scale,
you'll never touch a pressure washer
unless you want to. You know, if the
business can get big enough where you
can have employees, he can just focus on
sales or digital marketing or whatever
aspect of the business that he really
loves. I think that's the biggest thing
that a lot of entrepreneurs miss. You
know, they say, "I don't want to do that
for the rest of my life. I don't want
to, you know, be in the back of a dry
cleaner dry cleaning clothes. And to me,
it's just a question of scale. I think
the cafe is a great example because a
cafe, if it doesn't get to a reasonable
scale, is just a job. There's a big
difference between a business and a job,
right? I think if you you could start a
pressure washing business where you're
the only employee, yeah, that's a job.
But if you can get to a scale where you
can drive 10 leads a day, then you don't
have to do any of the pressure washing
and you just do what you love. So, I
think a lot of people have this kind of
Protestant work ethic where they think,
well, I've got to be the person to do
everything. And I think they really need
to lean into what I call lazy
leadership, which is how do I get away
from the things I hate as quickly as
humanly possible? How do I be teflon for
tasks? It's interesting that this
business is non-software related at all,
this pressure washing business. So I
guess just for folks that are coming up
with ideas and I imagine most ideas are
there's like a pull to make it software
oriented something AI is going to help
build for you and help you run. What's
your calculus on just going down a
direction of like real world physical
business like a restaurant power washing
business versus uh software just like
what are the benefits of that direction?
When should someone actually seriously
think about doing a business like a
power washing business? I think if
someone's listening to this podcast,
odds are they're someone who's kind of a
digital native. And I think the question
is, what's your unfair advantage and
what are you great at? So for me, I
think I have reasonably good taste and
so what I could do is identify and I
knew enough to identify great design and
development talent, but mostly I was
lucky because I was a talker. I was good
at meeting with clients and selling
myself. And so ultimately my highest and
best use, my superpower was sales. And
so that can be applied to anything,
anything where you need to go out and
you need to sell a customer. And so
really it just comes down to what do you
get drawn to and then how do you find
the profitable business within that. So
here's an example. A friend of mine, he
owns a restaurant and he said, "Oh, like
I love it. It's so I'm so passionate
about it. It's this stunning, beautiful
uh restaurant in my hometown. And he
said, you know, but it's really just a
job for a few different people and we
can't make any money at it, but I've
been noticing that there's all these
vendors that service the restaurant and
those guys are making a killing. And so
he told me about a business that cleans
grease traps, another one that cleans uh
exhaust vents for kitchens. So I think
looking around and seeing where your
passion is and then sniffing around
within it probably somewhere within your
passion there's an opportunity. So for
example I love movies. My happy place is
a dark theater. You know that's the best
way for me to de-stress is go to a dark
theater and watch a movie and get lost
in it. And probably about four or five
years ago, I was like, man, how cool
would it be to invest in movies in some
way to be a part of that creative world.
And so I started looking into funding
movies. And I realized that when you
fund movies, like 90% of the time you
lose all your money. And even if you do
make some money, you rarely make a good
return. But I kind of spent a bunch of
time understanding the industry and
learning about it. And then uh two years
ago I was in New Zealand and I met the
founder of Letterbox and I realized, oh
my god, this is a business where uh this
has a moat. So it has a network effect.
It's a huge social network for film
reviewers. It's something I'm passionate
about and it's something that we can buy
at a fair price. And so all those things
came together and I was like, "Oh my
god, I can invest in film now." So and
in the same way I used to be a barista,
we ended up buying the Aeropress coffee
maker company. So I kind of follow my
passions and spend a long time learning
different industries and then I find the
profitable niche within. Okay, this is a
great takeaway. Essentially, when you're
thinking about startup ideas, make sure
there's some connection to something
unique to you where you have some unfair
advantage. This makes me think about
Brian Armstrong. He come he I saw him do
a talk once and he gave this really
amazing insight about why uh why
Coinbase did well and why he started
Coinbase. And it's because if you look
at his background, he had this weirdly
rare van diagram of background of
computer science and I think it was
cryptography and economics
which is the exact set of skills you
need to start something like Coinbase.
And so I think the tip there is just
what is that unique ven diagram of
skills in your background and just
ideally what you're building connects to
that and gives you an unfair advantage.
Well, yeah. I mean, like I just met some
another UIC student at the local
university student, you know, she is
interested in marketing and so she's
gone out and she's found some local
clients, so small restaurants and stuff
and managed their social media. And she
kind of said, "Yeah, it's okay. I can
make a,000 bucks a month, but it's a lot
of work and you know, the owners really
want a lot for their money." And I said,
'Well, you know, if you just pivot that
idea just ever so slightly and instead
of doing restaurants, you did realtors
or wealth managers who have quite a
large marketing budget and are used to
spending serious money and it only has
to work a little bit to make a lot of
money for them. Those people you can
charge $5,000 a month. So, I think often
it's you find your passion, you know
your skill set, you zero in, and then
you just kind of pivot and you find the
most profitable way to do it. Like when
I started my web design firm, I started
mostly with local and small projects,
but very quickly I found a job board in
San Francisco where startups would share
uh projects they needed help with. I
could charge five times the amount for
five times less work. This point about
fish where the fish are, I think, is
really important. You can start
something that's awesome, that you love,
that you're so excited about, but nobody
needs it. Talk a bit more about just
what that looks like. What have you seen
when you're thinking about ideas that
tell you that there's fish but also not
overfished as he pointed out? I think
it's hard like Warren Buffett has this
great quote, I'm a better businessman
because I'm an investor and I'm a better
investor because I'm a businessman. And
I feel like in order to know what
problems are valuable to solve, you kind
of need to have valuable problems. So,
it's a bit of a hard thing because, you
know, I remember when I was like 20, I
would say, um, I hate how ugly all the
cat furniture I can buy for my cats is.
I bet people would pay a lot of money to
solve this. But I didn't understand
anything about the realities of that
business model. I didn't understand how
little people were actually willing to
pay. I didn't there I just I didn't have
enough life experience to go yes that's
actually a worthwhile opportunity and I
think that being able to know what
people would pay to solve the problem
realistically is incredibly valuable. So
my example of a realtor selling a house
because I've studied that industry I
know that a realtor can make like 20 to
$50,000 selling a single house. So, I
can intuit it that they'd be willing to
spend a lot of money if I have a unique
way of getting them clients that'll buy
houses that'll convert at a high
conversion rate that is worth $5,000 a
lead maybe, right? So, so I think you
kind of have to like understand the
problem in depth before you really know
because when I was starting out, I would
go down every rabbit trail, you know,
every um infomercial idea I had, I would
think was genius. For people that don't
I don't know that don't have this
experience which is most people is there
is there one thing you do maybe a
heruristic that kind of gives you a
sense maybe there's something here maybe
there's a lot of fish maybe it's a
valable problem or no this will tell me
it probably isn't no unfortunately I
think it's mostly gut I mean it's a it's
a like you know Mer and Buffett talk
about having a whole bunch of mental
models in your brain and they form a
lattice work right and they all kind of
piece together and I feel like for me
there's so much of this that is like
it's almost like I'm an AI model and
I've trained on all this data of what
works and what doesn't and what you know
what's a good boat and what what's a bad
business etc. And when I see it, I just
immediately know. I mean, I think all
the all entrepreneurs are so lucky now
to be able to go into Claude or Chap GPT
and just say, "Hey, I'm thinking about
starting a Botox clinic. Can you break
down the numbers? Is this a good
business? What's hard about it? What is
the regulatory uh moat? You know, what
what would my payroll look like?" I
didn't have any of that. And so, I
started so many incredibly stupid
businesses, but I think there's no
excuse at this point. you should be able
to do it with AI. That's a really good
tip actually. Then there's this point
you made about boring is good. That's a
really good piece of advice. A lot of
people are going after flashy stuff,
things they condemn on Twitter. Your
advice here is boring is actually a
really good thing because fewer people
are going after it. Is that the general
tip? Totally. I mean, I think um so I
started this business uh one of my first
called Flow. And Flow was basically a
sauna before a sauna came out. So, was a
way to manage your to-dos and projects
with your team uh in a web app. And we
basically did the thing, we made the
mistake that so many entrepreneurs make,
which is to go after an industry that
everybody goes after, you know, just
like cafes, everybody has the idea, man,
I wish I could design my own project
management system or my own to-do
system. And not only that, but everybody
loves new things. They love jumping
around. And I know me personally in the
last 3 years I probably used three
different productivity systems and I I
love jumping around in them and I didn't
understand that and I ended up losing
$10 million trying to compete with
venturebacked businesses and
bootstrapping. It was all my own money.
Poured $10 million lit on fire trying to
compete with Asana because I didn't
understand how the business world worked
really. You know, I was kind of like
they they had raised, you know, hundreds
of millions of dollars and they were run
by the co-founder of Facebook and it was
a little little bit like I'm Fiji and
I'm deciding I'm going to invade the
United States in retrospect. Just
completely silly. Now, on the flip side,
if I'd taken that same amount of energy
and I'd instead focused on, let's see,
what's a really boring one I've heard
about there? There was a business I saw
recently. They were making $30 million a
year, and all they did was help people
fill out forms to get government
assistance in certain programs. So, it'
be like, uh, you know, your uncle is
disabled and you need to access
government funding. They the process to
do it is incredibly time consuming and
miserable and you have to fill out all
these forms. They just have software
that fills out the forms for you and it
says look you're going to get $20,000 as
a grant. Pay us a,000 bucks and that is
such a boring like nobody wakes up and
goes I want to make form filling
software but I think they would if they
could make $20 million a year. Along
these lines of just bad ideas things
people shouldn't start. What are a few
ideas that you think everyone thinks is
going to be a great idea and then they
do it and then they always fail? Well, I
think the biggest mistake I can speak
from my own experience. The biggest
mistakes I've made business-wise have
been going into business models where
other people have repeatedly failed and
thinking I can do this better. So, for
example, me and one of my best friends
about 10 years ago, we really wanted to
start a bar. We just thought it'd be so
cool to have a bar where us and all of
our friends could go. We thought it'd be
great for the city. And so we and we and
we thought, you know, we can run this
really high margin because we're tech
guys. We know how to build systems.
We're good at business. And we were
utterly humbled. You know, we realized
that we didn't know anything about
business compared to someone who runs a
pizzeria. If you think about it, like my
example earlier of if you run a software
company, what has to happen? You have to
hire a bunch of nerds. They need
internet connections and computers and
you need to pay them and you need to
coordinate online and everyone can work
asynchronously. Nothing has to go right.
You know, it's not that complicated, at
least at small scale. A pizzeria, it's
like if the baker doesn't wake up at 3
in the morning and start prepping dough,
the entire thing is effed. And all along
the way there's a hundred different
failure points from front of house, back
of house, the deliveries arriving on
time, all these logistics. And so I
think it's been stuff like that. I I
mean I also, you know, I got into the
news business, the local news business.
I ended up buying a like a old paper uh
in Vancouver and it's the exact same
thing. It's like I just can't you can't
take a brilliant management team and
change a bad business model. You know,
ultimately the business model wins. This
is uh this is really good advice.
Basically, if there's a bunch of dead
bodies in that space, there's probably
something there that keeps killing them
that you probably not aware of until
maybe somebody figures something out,
right? Like once in a while, once in a
blue moon, someone's like, "Okay, here's
how we do this." And then it works.
Well, look at Instacart, right? When
Instacart came out, everyone said,
"Well, web van failed. This is never
going to work." And we still don't
necessarily know if Instacart is a great
business. I don't I don't know. I
haven't studied it but but I think it
was like okay enough technology has
changed that it can happen but would it
be easier to start Instacart, Amazon or
Coupang or would it be easier to start
an enterprise SAS software company?
Definitely the enterprise SAS software
company. I see. So this is I guess is
the advice there. The thing that is easy
to start is the thing you should not do
because everyone's going after that.
Well, it goes back to my gym analogy of
if you're going to deadlift 300 pounds,
train for 15 years, right? You should
have already had three startups and they
should have worked and you know, you've
really built up the reps. And I think
that if I was going to start Instacart,
you know, that's different than someone
who's 20 starting it. Not that I would
be good at it, but at least I would know
what I'm getting into. Let's talk about
something that is kind of this like
endless debate on Twitter. Maybe it's a
false dichotomy between lifestyle
businesses, kind of bootstrap
businesses. This idea of not raising
money, just making revenue, living off
the revenue versus ventureback venture
scale companies. Feels like you're uh
very good at the first bucket. And uh a
lot of people, this is their dream. I'm
just going to start something. I'll
start a lifestyle business, make a few
million a year, never raise money. Who
needs VCs? VCs suck. Advice for deciding
which route to go with a an idea you
have? Well, I think um
there's this it's just not true that a
quote unquote lifestyle or bootstrap
business can't get huge. I mean, we
bootstrapped the entire business and now
across all of our companies, we do
almost $300 million in revenue, right?
So it doesn't there's no and the the
whole time you know I had been focusing
on taking you know starting small
businesses small ideas simple ideas
often buying small companies and
watching them grow really big and I
think that the only difference between
what we do and what a venture capitalist
does is the level of tolerance of
burning money on fire and I just haven't
seen that if we ch if we choose the
right businesses that aren't in
incredibly competitive markets or where
they have some sort of moat. So, what I
mean by that is like a great brand or a
network effect like a social network or
something like that. There's no I don't
feel we're holding them back by not
letting them light a bunch of money on
fire because these things naturally
grow. The numbers I mean they're like,
you know, balloons. They just go uh as
long as we don't mess them up too much.
So I think the decision ultimately comes
down to how hairy do you want your big
hairy audacious goal to be. And if you
you know your big hairy audacious goal
is I'm going to start the next satellite
business that you know creates some sort
of crazy technological revolution. Yes,
you're going to have to raise venture
capital unless you're already a
billionaire or something like that. But
if you're wanting to just tinker and
solve a problem that you think is not
going to be hyper competitive. So for
example, that form filling thing or
software that just does a narrow thing
that doesn't require 20, 30, $40 million
to be lit on fire before it can make
money, then you know, you can have a
wonderful life and build a wonderful
company that can scale into the hundreds
of millions of dollars if you play your
cards right without ever raising money.
per the story you shared with Flo where
you were competing against a venture uh
venture funded company if there is a
venturebacked company in the space is
the advice like you're not going to win
competing with them most likely and try
to do something else well look at um
things do you know things
I do it's awesome so you know things
still exists and things has existed for
20 years it's run by I believe one or
two or three people like it's not a big
team, certainly under 10 people. It was,
I believe, bootstrapped and it's just
consistently delivered an exceptional
product and built up a loyal following.
They have their, you know, 10,000 true
fans who use it and that's enough for
them. But they don't do a lot. They've
been very intentional. They don't do any
AI stuff. They don't have an API, you
know, all they they've they're not on
Android. They're very focused. And I
think they they have succeeded. But the
question is what would an MBA or a
business professor say about their
success. If the measure of success is
did they maximize taking as much market
share as possible and grow to be as big
as possible then the answer is no
because Aana and other people have built
multi-billion dollar companies. If the
goal is the founder has an incredible
life, probably has three houses, flies
all over the place, does whatever he
wants, has recurring revenue, and he
gets to work with headphones on building
a beautiful piece of software that
people love, then I think he's won. I am
generally much more in the camp of the
things guy has won, not Dustin
Moskavitz. Dustin Mos Moskovitz is just
playing a different game than the things
guy. And if Dustin Moskovitz was running
things, he'd be miserable. And if the
things guy was running a sauna, he would
probably kill himself because he wants
to put his headphones on and build. I
wonder why nobody has come. It feels
like just with lifestyle businesses, if
it's working and you would think
somebody would come in with more money
and more funding and just eat eat their
lunch is the key that the market is too
small for a VC to ever be excited and so
that's why no one's coming for them. I
think so. I mean, I think things
probably I'm I'm just guessing. I don't
know any of the numbers or whatever, but
I would assume it makes between five and
$25 million of revenue, which to a VC is
like not even worth considering. Like a
VC, they want to you for for a VC to
invest in your business, you need to
have a story where it's worth 300
million to a billion dollars or more.
So, it's just not that exciting to them.
Which, again, going back to fish where
the fish are, right? You don't want to
be con uh fighting against the
commercial fishermen, right? If you just
want to have a little business where you
make enough, you know, you get enough
fish to feed your family and your
village or whatever, find the other
fishing hole. Don't go where the trwers
are. This is great advice. If you're
trying to start a non- ventureback
company is find uh this metaphor just
keeps working for us, which is uh fish
where the fish are, but not where the
professional fishermen are. Also,
ideally, not where there's just like a
ton of uh I don't know, fishermen from
all over the place. I don't know. Solo
solopreneur fisherman. Okay. Coming back
to just starting a successful company,
what would you say are the keys to an
amazing business model and amazing
business broadly? Like what should you
be thinking about and looking into? I
know you spend a lot of time thinking
about this when you're buying companies.
What are like a few bullet points that
you want to focus on? What I do for a
living is basically buy businesses. So
in my early career, I started one
business. Then I started about 10 more.
And then I realized starting businesses
was extremely hard. And I I was doing
pretty well. I was making quite a bit of
money and I'd sold one of my businesses.
And I was looking out at the next 10
years and really asking myself, what do
I want my career to be? And am I happy
doing what I'm doing? And the answer was
no. I did not like starting businesses
and experiencing that failure rate. It
was incredibly stressful. And so I
picked up a book about investing and I
got lucky. The first one I b I bought
was about Warren Buffett. And for those
that don't know, Warren Buffett is kind
of he's counter to every VC kind of
hustle culture thing you might hear
because he basically just sits quietly
in a room and reads all day despite
owning 260
uh different businesses and being one of
the 10 wealthiest people in the world.
His life is incredibly calm. He only
does what he wants and he spends most of
his time quietly reading and once or
twice a year he makes a big decision to
buy a business. And so when I read about
Warren Buffett, I just thought, "Wow,
I'm a sucker. I'm running around like a
crazy person trying to run all these
businesses. Why am I not just buying
businesses and letting them run?" And so
when I'm buying a business, what I'm
really looking for is something that I
can't mess up. Right now, obviously, we
buy a business, we try not to mess it
up, and we're very intentional,
actually, very odd in that when Tiny
buys a company, we generally just leave
them alone. If they already have
management in place, we say nothing
changes. You know, no one should know
that any that we've even bought them. Uh
obviously, people know that, but but
really like there should be no change
whatsoever. The only change that we
generally make is if the founder wants
to leave the business, then we'll bring
in a CEO to run the company. And that's
probably the most important decision
that we make. So I'm looking for a
business though where it is so good that
it's hard to mess up. And most
businesses are very easy to mess up. You
know, like one person leaves and the
whole business falls apart because it's
held together with dental floss and duct
tape. And so I'm really looking for what
Warren Buffett would call a moat. So a
moat is basically a brand. So that could
be a brand like Coca-Cola, Tylenol,
Advil, something like that. So something
that gives you pricing power where you
can consistently charge and you have
loyal customers or uh where we usually
find a lot of opportunity is in network
effects. So typically we're looking for
a community that's gotten so big where
people don't want to go elsewhere. So
for example, we own Letterbox, which is
the largest social network for film
lovers. And the question is, if someone
else wants to compete with us, why would
someone go to their social network that
has a small number of users when all
their friends are already on letter
boxed? And so you see that same kind of
thing with Instagram or Facebook or
similar. And so we're looking for
businesses like that, something that has
staying power that is hard to compete
with and that we can hold over the very
long term. It was interesting when Elon
bought X, how that was such a test of
the power of network effects. If you
think about it back then, he changed the
name. So the brand completely changed
the team, 80% of the people left. Like
what was left? It was the network and
the network effect. And the the simplest
way just for folks that aren't super
familiar with network effects, the way I
think about it is just network effect is
where every additional user that joins
the network becomes more useful for
everybody. There's another mode which is
high switching costs which I don't
really like because it's it's not really
very consumer friendly, but an example
might be Salesforce where no one wants
to they've they've spent years and
they've done all the implementation and
trained everyone on it and it's kind of
the standard. Everybody hates it, but
ripping it out and switching is such a
pain in the ass that they just won't
bother. You know, that's another form of
sometimes a great business. But again,
that's more depressing. I don't love
that one. What's the last company you
guys bought? Uh, we bought Sorado. So,
Sorado is the largest DJ software
company in the world. So, if you ever
see a DJ playing and they've got a
laptop in front of them, probably using
Sorado to DJ. Wow, that is super cool.
What like a fun thing to to I used to I
used to DJ so I I was aware of them and
it was one of those moments we talked
about earlier where you know I
understood the business. They had uh a
really interesting mode of this huge
passionate user base and deep hardware
integration and uh and I also love DJing
and I was able to analyze the business
and you know luck comes the prepared
mind and it worked out. This is another
great call back to your excellent piece
of advice of just ideally what you're
working on whether you're starting the
company or buying the company is you
have a unique unfair advantage or some
kind of unique background that connects
to that idea. Let me ask you one more
question before we shift to a whole
different topic. Uh, hint hint AI.
Something that I know you talk a lot
about, something you believe strongly,
and something you deal with a lot is
when you buy companies is just is people
and the the challenges of of management
and hiring and people. So, what have you
learned about just uh how to
successfully I don't know find amazing
people, keep amazing people, help people
be more successful within the companies
that you operate? My business partner
Chris has a really great quote. He says,
"There are no problems. there is only
people problems and so we've found that
you know you could tell us that there's
a disaster that you know one of our
business units is about to fail or
something like that as long as I'm
surrounded by really great smart people
I feel fine right but when we have a bad
actor we have a psycho or a narcissist
or a really horrible difficult person
we're dealing with all bets are off and
life becomes incredibly stressful so I'd
say I spend probably
20% % of my time just trying to make
sure we're filtering people very
carefully and ensuring we're working
with people that we enjoy. Uh, and I
could talk about it in the AI. I've done
some really interesting stuff to help me
screen and identify difficult people.
But I've just found that the biggest
mistake I made in my early career was I
would hire people because I like them on
gut and I would think that I could
change them. So, it's kind of like in
romantic relationships. It never works
out well if you, you know, get married
to someone and you go, "Okay, well, this
is going to be a great relationship as
long as I can convert them to
Christianity or I can change their
parents or their personality or whatever
it is." And so, I've just found that
I've never been able to change someone.
I've never You can never mentor someone
out out into being a good employee. And
the the kind of heruristic I have is if
I ever think should I fire this person
even once I should fire them
immediately. Uh it has always been a
signal at least for me that when
someone's a superstar I can't imagine
firing them. I think it's it's
impossible the I'd be lost without them.
But when I repeatedly start going man is
this person gonna work out almost always
within six to 12 months uh it doesn't
work out. And so I really try and be
really direct about stuff like that and
just cut when it's not working. So I'd
say like the lesson really is hire for
what you need. Don't hire just for
potential, which is counter to what a
lot of people say. A lot of people say
hire for potential and coach them into
being whatever you need. I just haven't
found that. I I think you kind of need
to have hire someone who already is
fully formed and can do what you need.
But again, everyone does it differently.
This is big advice. Powerful advice. Is
this is this true? Not just for like the
CEOs of the companies you you run is for
folks under lower down the ladder too.
Well for CEOs one of the most
interesting things we've observed is so
so I'll give you an example. So we had a
CEO come in and we were interviewing
them and he my in my opinion the
business needed to grow via organic
marketing. In his opinion it was
enterprise sales. And so when we're
interviewing him, he keeps going back to
his experience building with enterprise
sales. And there's this great saying to
a man with a hammer, everything looks
like a nail. And so for him, he's
looking at this business and going,
"Enterprise sales, that's the way to
grow." I hire him, but I say, "Look, if
we're going to hire you, we need you to
do the organic marketing." Lo and
behold, of course, he goes off and he
does the enterprise sales thing. And
I've just found that hiring CEOs is like
you're they're an elephant and you're
the rider. They're going to go wherever
it is that they want to go. And so
listening incredibly carefully to
people's words and their experiences
because generally people will do the
thing they tell you. So what I look for
when I interview a CEO now, I want to be
nodding along. I want to go that's
exactly what I would do or that's way
smarter than my idea. and then I just
leave them alone because I've found that
anytime I try and pull pull them in a
certain direction or coach them or
whatever, it just doesn't work. And
again, this could be my problem. I might
be the world's worst coach and mentor,
but for me, that's been what's true. I
imagine there's also an element of they
won't love the job if they want to be
doing say enterprise sales and then
they're like creating viral Tik Tok
videos all day and tweeting. They're
like, "What the hell?" Well, I've also
found people will shoot themselves in
the foot, right? if they if they if I
tell them an idea in a board meeting and
I say, "I really need you to try this,"
it never works because usually they kind
of sandbag it, right? They don't really
put their heart into it or they they're
just kind of placating me and they don't
want it to work. They want their idea to
work. And so I've learned not to do
that. This episode is brought to you by
Miro. Every day, new headlines are
scaring us about all the ways that AI is
coming for our jobs, creating a lot of
anxiety and fear. But a recent survey
for Miro tells a different story. 76% of
people believe that AI can benefit their
role, but over 50% of people struggle to
know when to use it. Enter Miro's
innovation workspace, an intelligent
platform that brings people and AI
together in a shared space to get great
work done. Miro has been empowering
teams to transform bold ideas into the
next big thing for over a decade. Today,
they're at the forefront of bringing
products to market even faster by
unleashing the combined power of AI and
human potential. Teams can work with
Miro AI to turn unstructured data like
sticky notes or screenshots into usable
diagrams, product briefs, data tables,
and prototypes in minutes. You don't
have to be an AI master or to toggle yet
another tool. The work you're already
doing in Miro's canvas is the prompt.
Help your teams get great work done with
Miro. Check it out at miro.com to find
out how. That's mirror.com.
Let's talk about AI. Uh, it's so funny
to watch you on Twitter. Clearly, you've
become AI obsessed, AI pills. I don't
know what the term is. And I love that
you're not just the kind of person that
just talks about it and tweets
plantifications. You're like clearly
using it in like every facet of your job
and looking for more ways to use AI. So,
I have a lot of questions here because I
think this is where more and more
founders are going to be where you are
today. First of all, just what's in your
AI stack these days? like what are the
tools you find yourself coming back to
most or finding more most useful? So the
primary tool I use is a tool called
Lindy lindy.ai.
Uh and what it basically lets you do is
build workflows and agents. So it's very
simple. You might say when I get an
email in the Gmail API, uh I want you I
want to add an AI agent that reads the
email and labels it based on that.
Right? Or you can build a crazy Rube
Goldberg machine that sends different
emails all sorts of different places. So
for example, uh when I get an email and
it's related to my kid's school. One of
the big problems I have is that my kid's
school sends so many emails, you know,
the field trip is on Thursday and you
need to bring the following things and
meanwhile there's parent teacher
interviews and all these things get
added to my calendar. the AI agent
automatically takes that, puts it onto
my calendar, makes sure there's notes
for all the things I need to prepare and
stuff. So, like I have just basically
tried to take every single thing a human
could do in my inbox and automate it
with Lindy. And you're sitting there in
Lindy doing this yourself. Uh, or do you
have people that you've kind of trained
to help build these sorts of things for
you? No, I do it myself. Okay. How many
agents, if if that's the term you want
to use, do you have running for you? Oh,
man. I think I probably have not not a
crazy amount within let's see each well
each workflow probably has four or five
agents. So for example my inbox has four
or five agents and then I have a whole
bunch of other you know I've got a
calendar agent, I've got a meeting
agent, I've got an email agent, I've got
uh a scheduler, I've got a CRM and
basically they're all different
workflows with a whole bunch of agents
within. Okay. And you're not even you're
not an investor in Lindy, right? You're
just a fan. Super easy. No. No. Fun
fact, I actually am. So, this is great.
That's awesome. A tiny angel investor.
So, just want to put that out there,
which is I love that this came up
organically. What are a couple other uh
really interesting use cases, workflows
you've built that people might be
inspired by? Let me let me go through
the email one a little more. So,
basically, emails come in and the first
agent says, "Does Andrew even need to
see this?" Like let's say you're on a
thread and you've already chimed in and
everyone's just saying cool that works.
I don't need to see that. So it just
archives that never never. So that
immediately reduces my email about by
about 20%. Then it decides is this
something that is time sensitive? Is
this something that needs to be dealt
with in the next 24 hours? And if so, it
labels it in a special 24-hour label. So
when I go to my email, one of the
biggest stresses I find is I go, [__]
there's 200 emails in here and if I
don't go through all of them, I don't
know if there's an emergency burning
somewhere. So now I do. Then it takes
any email uh or every single email and
it decides is this a simple decision. So
for example, let's say you email me and
you say, hey, do you want to get lunch?
So it emails me privately and it says,
hey, Lenny wants to get lunch. Do you
want to say yes? Do you want to say yes,
but in a few months? Do you want to say
no? How do you want to say no? And it
gives me multiple choice. I just can say
four, like number four. And then it'll
email you as me and it'll write out a
nice thoughtful email or whatever. So
stuff like that is like so freaking cool
and helpful. And I'd say that it's
replaced stuff that my full-time I used
to have a full-time assistant just
working on email. That's all completely
automated. And there's all sorts of
other cool stuff I'm doing there. Other
agents, like I'm working on one right
now to manage my calendar, which is
really complex. I do a lot of scheduling
and a lot of rules. I have another
really simple one. It adds emojis to
every single calendar event. So, when I
look at my calendar, I've got beautiful
little emojis for every single calendar
event. Very silly. What are the emojis?
Like, do they represent something? Yeah.
So, if I write weightlifting, it'll just
do like a, you know, a guy weightlifting
or whatever. I've got one that this
one's cool. Basically, what it does,
every time I email someone, it looks
them up online. It figures out what city
they live in. It checks my CRM in Air
Table. It says, "Okay, I don't know.
Where do you live?" In uh in Marin, in
the Bay Area. Okay. So, it' say, "Okay,
you email Lenny, he lives in Marin. It
puts in the database you live in Marin."
And then next time I travel to the Bay
Area, the agent will see two weeks
before and it'll say, "I saw you're
going to to San Francisco. Here's all
the people in San Francisco you should
try and have coffee with. Right. So,
just like all these things that
Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Like all these
things that I've dreamed of having my
assistant do that my assistant could
just never consistently do because she
gets distracted. We're doing an event.
There's something going on. It's like
having the world's most reliable
employee who costs $200 a month and
works 24/7. Okay. I want to follow that
thread. But first of all, what other
tools do you have? What are Lindy is one
what else do you find really useful? So
the other one is um Replet. So Replet is
basically a vibe coding platform. You
can literally go into it and say you
know I want to make a website for my SAS
software business. Here's you know a big
document with a bunch of details and
it'll go and design a pretty impressive
website. But then you can also build web
apps now. So you can you can literally
be like, "Yeah, build a Python web app
that does XYZ." And the design is
getting so good because it uses Claude
4. You can start saying, "Do it in the
style of Stripe. Um, think this through.
Rewrite all the copy and the tone of
David Oglevie or Malcolm Gladwell or
whoever you like." And it does a really
incredible job. So what I'm finding is
that things that previously would have
frustrated me because I would have had
to rely on a team of five, I can just do
entirely on my own when it comes to web
projects and stuff like that. So I'm
having a blast with that. That's cool.
So you're team replet versus lovable
bold v0ero. Is that roughly? I mean
they're all great. I I just am the most
familiar with replet and it seems like
it has the most functionality. like it
has a lot of uh beef to it, whereas
Lovable and Bolt seem a little more
basic. You might have to deal with uh
deployment and stuff in a fiddlier way
with them. Awesome. Okay. Anything else?
Um, another one I love, so Limitless, I
don't know if you've seen this. I've
I've got one of those. It's really cool.
So, you know, clips to your shirt. I
actually just put it on my pocket so no
one actually notices that I've got it on
usually and I just have it on all day.
And what it does is it just records
everything I do. And then I can say, you
know, the other day I had a coffee with
someone and I'm the kind of person where
I go a mile a minute and I say, "Oh,
I'll I'll send you that and I'll do this
or whatever." And so at the end of the
day, I can just say, "Hey, what did what
did I promise to people today or me even
better, everyone loves this use case, I
have a fight with my girlfriend." And
she says, "You didn't say that." And I'm
able to say, "Well, actually, you know,
you did." and and you can query it as an
LLM. So you can say you're a couple's
counselor. Look at this fight. What did
each person need? How did it start? What
are the key lines? Where did it change?
How could you do this better? And so
honestly, from a relationship standpoint
is probably where it's been the most
useful. What's cool, too, is that has an
API. And so eventually, I haven't gotten
there yet, but eventually you'll be able
to just have it record your entire day
and then automatically go into your
to-do list or whatever it is and add
to-dos or send emails or whatever you
need it to do. Wow, this is so fun. Uh
or just per your point with the
relationship, ask it, what could I have
done better today? Where did I where did
I where did the day go downhill? Yeah, I
saw a guy on Twitter. He said, every day
I ask it, how could I have been a better
dad? And it'll be like, "Oh, your, you
know, your daughter tried to get your
attention about this. You, you know, you
should have paid attention or whatever."
And that was with the Limitless data.
Oh, man. I love that with the
relationship you didn't go where I
thought you were going to go where it's
like, "Oh, but who actually said it?
What did you actually say?" I love that
it became much more wholesome of just
like, "How could we have communicated
better holistically?"
Okay. My wife actually is like, "Don't
don't wear this around. You just got to
wear it really covertly." It honestly
honestly I know it sounds kind of cheesy
because you think like oh it'll tell her
right but in reality usually you're both
guilty in the fight and my girlfriend
has actually appreciated it because
there's been half the time it'll be like
oh yeah you know Zoe kind of said this
and it triggered this but a lot of the
time it's me too and I think I'm totally
right. So I I find it actually really
helpful. other other tools. I mean,
otherwise it's kind of the basic stack
of uh Claude and Chad GPT and Gemini.
And Gemini I use mostly for things that
are really um large. So, for example,
all my medical records I have trained on
Gemini 2.5 just cuz the other ones can't
really go through it all. Claude I use
for writing very extensively. I find
it's the best for that. And then Chad
GBT for everything else. In terms of
cool things I do recently, like I went
through my entire medicine cabinet and I
just took big photos that showed all the
different uh medicines and stuff and now
I can say something like, "Hey, um you
know, I'm really tired and stressed out
today. What supplement should I take and
what dose?" Uh or I'll say, "Remember
remember all the medications I'm taking.
Whenever I ask you a health question,
always remind me in the context of I
might be taking that medication." And so
a few times it said, "Hey, you shouldn't
take this other medication because your
genetics say you're not compatible with
it and you're already taking this other
one." So stuff like that's been really
helpful for that use case. Do you come
back to a specific conversation where
you've given it that context? Use a
project. When I say remember, I just say
whenever remember these supplements,
this is what I have in my medicine
cabinet or this is what I take every
day. I see. So just tap into the memory
of chat GPT. Yeah, this is awesome. This
makes me uh remember that I I've started
to use and this connects to other points
you've been making. I've started to use
Chad GBT deep research to prep for these
conversations. I used to have a
researcher who did this for 400 bucks.
They did research on every guest that I
had 4 to 500 bucks and gave me a whole
doc. Here's everything about them.
Here's their background. Here's
questions you might want to ask. Deep
research is better just as of recently,
especially with 03 Pro. We were talking
earlier about agents. I forgot one of my
favorite agents. So it looks on my
calendar 30 minutes before I meet
anyone. It goes on to perplexity and it
does a deep dive on the person and it
sends me it goes into my email and it
gets the context of the meeting. So
often I book meetings 3 months out. So I
usually look at my calendar and I go who
is this person? I don't even remember
booking this meeting. It'll text me
before and it'll say here's who you are.
Here's your background. Here's the email
context of why we're meeting. And it can
and it basically does all the research
for me. So, and I I do the same thing. I
also use deep research and say like give
me if I'm meeting them, you know
everything about me. What are our
commonalities and what are all the fun
things we should talk about? Oh my god,
I just I just want to plug and play all
these agents you built to use them
myself. Uh, interestingly, I tried to
create an agent to do this research
kickoff for me, but I don't think you
can automate chatbt deep research. Okay.
Only Yeah. Okay. Okay. Perplexity is
great, too, but it's different. Okay.
Okay, so let me follow this thread I was
going down which is around job
displacement. I know you think a lot
about this. So with me, this researcher,
it was a contractor I was working with
for a few months. I no longer need them.
Your assistant, you no longer need.
Thoughts on just the impact we're going
to see on jobs as a result of AI.
There's this great uh William Gibson
quote, the future is already here. It's
just not evenly distributed. And I think
that we are in the Palm Trio phase. Do
you remember the Palm Trio? No. So, so
when I was, let's see, in 2007, I think
was that when the iPhone came out, 2007,
2007, something like that. In 2007,
there was this device called the Palm
Trio, and it was like a little PDA with
a stylus and you, it had a little modem
attachment. And so, what you could do is
you could get your email anywhere. And
that was this shocking thing. It had a
you know, black and white or barely
color screen and you could go in and
email people. And I remember being
walking through the mall buying shoes
while answering business emails and
going, "This is the ultimate freedom.
This is incredible." But the problem
with that device was it sucked. You
know, you had to use a stylus. It's not
a good user experience. And then the
iPhone comes out and you're like, "Okay,
this is this is what I was waiting for.
This is the real thing." But I got a
little preview with the Palm Trio. And
so right now, people like me who have
the time to the time and skill set to
nerd out and build the agents can do
this. It's just not accessible to
everybody. And I think that if it was
accessible to everybody in terms of if
you could just open chat GPT and say,
"Hey, ChatGpt, I run a business. Can you
help me?" And it started asking you
questions and it said, "Oh, well, you
know, you do sales. Do you want me to
set up a sales agent?" Okay, great. Plug
in your HubSpot API. Now, tell me a few
things and then give me access to all
your data and then before you know it,
it's just a digital employee that's on
the other end of the phone on chat GPT
just like in the movie Her that you can
talk to and it can go do stuff. I think
that is kind of the iPhone moment that
we're going to have in sometime in the
next 5 years. And so I think that if AI
doesn't progress we will see some
serious job displacement like what you
already mentioned the translators the
researchers the admin um some assistant
jobs depending on the kind of work they
do those jobs will definitely be
massively affected but I think pretty
quick all knowledge work jobs could be
affected if the models scale in the way
that they say they're going I mean if
you trust Sam Alman and Dario Amade I
mean Daario Amade said by 2027 our
models will be smarter than all PhDs
any so in any subject that is a
staggering statement and he's been a
very conservative kind of almost fearful
voice in the AI world very cautious to
say things like that and so when he said
that I kind of perked up and started
listening carefully. I don't know that
that's going to h how it's going to play
out. He might be trying to fund raise.
We have to take it with a grain of salt.
But if that's true, then I think so many
knowledge work jobs are going to change
massively.
Okay, there's a lot here. I actually had
Mike on the podcast, their CPO, Mike
Rger, and he pointed out that Daario,
every prediction he's had so far has
been right over the past few years. And
so there's reason to listen to his
insights. Okay. Andre, I know you're not
going to have all the answers for
people, but let me ask you a kind of a
two-part question for new grads and for
people currently in the workforce, say
like I don't know, senior product
manager, advice on what they should do,
where should they focus, what skills
will matter most, what jobs do you think
will last? What advice can you give us?
You know, everybody 10 years ago, do you
remember there was this whole movement
that we should teach kids how to code?
Remember that? So now teaching kids how
to code is like teaching kids basic and
we have a guey right you don't need to
learn punch cards and basic programming
because or MS DOS because we all have
keyboards and mice so we don't have to
do that and I feel like coding
has really gone away because of that and
I think now people are saying people
need to learn how to prompt which I
think is very true for the tool set
right now but I don't know how relevant
that is in the future because I think
we're still again at the palm trio
phase. I think that the AIS will be very
good at eliciting what the actual
problem you're trying to solve is and
reinterpreting it in a way that it can
optimize the query to get the right
answer and solve the problem. And so I
think the fundamental question is do all
jobs just become a single prompt? So for
example, does a CEO just become uh grow
the business while making the customers
happy and turning a profit or or
something like that and it is able to
actually be an omnisient presence that
can run a whole company. Now that's a
big I'm someone building AI agents. I
can barely get it to reliably do you
know calendar entries and that kind of
stuff. So I don't think that's totally
imminent. But I can certainly see a
world where that's coming. And so the
question is what is one to do when that
reality is barreling down at you? For
people who have resources, I think
there's a lot of things they can do in
terms of investment. They can invest in
the companies that'll benefit from this.
Companies that have a lot of compute or
energy or that sort of thing. So that's
one thing, but that's not really the
question. The question is what do you do
if you're a smart 18year-old or
19year-old or whatever. In my opinion, I
think the best thing to do right now is
to get incredibly good with these tools
and utilize them to build enough wealth
that you can put the money into
diversifying into uh compute and energy.
And I do think that while everybody
thinks that, you know, all jobs will go
away in 5 years and robots will be
everywhere, people generally
overestimate things in the short term
and underestimate them in the long term.
So, I think there's going to be this
long window where robotics is not
anywhere near good enough to even do
like raking leaves and stuff. And I
think there's going to be a ton of
opportunity for people to just spin up
new businesses that never existed
before. Like I was talking to some
friends and we were like, you know, what
do you do in a world of abundance where,
you know, everything is really cheap and
and companies operate almost
autonomously? I think there's a lot of
weird skill sets that we can't imagine
right now. Like for example, just being
funny, right? Being funny to hang out
with. You know, think about Only Fans,
right? Right now, there's this whole
idea of Only Fans or or where people are
paying for comfort and connection, but
in a romantic sense. Imagine people did
that dayto-day. They just love hanging
out with funny people. So, you have a
funny guy who you chat with or comes
over to your house or whatever it is.
I'm making stuff up. Maybe it's a guy
who comes play to plays play pickle ball
with you or something. I don't know. But
I could imagine that in this weird world
there's all these weird new jobs. So I
think like my take is like things will
either be to things will either be
totally fine or they will be terrible
and we'll all be dead. And I can't
predict which one of those is there. I
don't think it's worth thinking about
all of us being dead. And so I think
it's really just lean into what are the
tools? How do you stay cutting edge? How
do you build businesses and wealth in
this new world? But I'm certainly
feeling a little bit like all of our
brains could be defunct in the next 10
years. And that's kind of a scary
thought. I'm picturing this dystopian
world where humans are just going around
making jokes.
Well, it's like where does where does
status come from, right? In a world of
abundance, where does status come from?
You know, maybe it is just like having
being the best at hiking or something.
Well, let me ask you this because this
is where it gets even more real is just
with your kids. What are you encouraging
them to learn? What are you encouraging
them to get good at? Because that's, you
know, like this is the real problem a
lot of people are having right now is
what will matter in the future?
Obviously, we don't know. But what are
you what are you what are you
encouraging them to focus on? Well, I
don't know. I mean, they're so little.
They're five and eight. And so, really,
what I'm focused on is making sure
they're socialized and they're polite.
Very basic. So, are they comfortable
talking to adults? Like I often send my
son whenever he wants something at a
cafe, I always make him go up, ask
nicely, pay himself, all that kind of
stuff. But at this point, you know, I
feel like for the first 10 years of
life, you're just trying to make sure
that they're not traumatized or rude.
And that I think it's going to be really
interesting when they're 10 plus where
they're really aware of this stuff and
can start building with these tools. And
to be honest, I just don't know. I think
I just want them to lean into whatever
they're passionate about and go from
there. But I have no idea. And to be
honest, it's not something I'm worrying
about because it's too hard to worry
about. I don't know. It's too
multivariate. There's too many ways it
can go. I feel like a core part of your
message is just get good with these
tools. There's this classic quote, uh,
AI won't replace you. It'll be somebody
very good using AI is going to replace
you, at least for a while. And so it
feels like a big part of this is just
like use these things. Before we were
started recording, we were having a mic
issue and I love you just went straight
to chatt chatt how do I connect this mic
to riverside and make it work and I feel
like that's just a habit to build is
just assume chat like go to catch
whenever you have problem like that.
I've been doing that a lot. I was
connecting a subwoofer. I'm like what
wire do I need to buy to connect the
subwoofer to the receiver? Well the best
part about chatbt is I used to just get
stuck and I have ADHD. So when I get
stuck, let's say like what's an example?
I was I was redoing my home IT security,
right? And what will happen is I'll be
in the terminal and I'll enter something
and then something goes wrong and it
just keeps erroring and then I'm like,
well, I'm out. Like I have ADHD. I can't
tolerate this. I I don't have I just I
just lose the thread completely. And
Chad GBT allows me to stay on track and
go so much further and faster than I
ever could before. And I just love I
love not being artificially stopped in
your tracks and being able to continue
the flow state as a result. And also uh
I noticed you were using voice mode
which is what I've been using more and
more and I feel like that's something a
lot of people sleep on is just the voice
mode where you could talk to it and not
have to sit there and type your
questions.
Okay. So let me go in a different
direction. You've been spending a lot of
time. And you wrote a whole book about
this of just kind of your journey from
you called it barista to billionaire
where you started serving coffee then
you ended up being very successful then
realized that that's not didn't make you
happy. You were quite unhappy uh with
lots and lots of money. I think a lot of
people hear these stories they see this
stuff they're like yeah okay I sort of
get it but they still do the same sorts
of things. They still assume they will
be happy once they reach that next goal
that next title make certain dollar
amount. What can you share? What have
you learned about just what it actually
takes to be happy that you think people
are still not really recognizing and
still kind of are confused about? Do you
remember um when you're in your early
20s like you I I remember when I was in
my early 20s I'd always be like I need
to move away to Europe. I need to go
discover myself. And I'd be really
anxious and stressed out and in an
existential crisis and then I'd fly to
Europe to go backpacking or something
and I'd still feel anxious and have my
existential crisis. It's just now I'm in
Europe. And I think the reality is that
whatever is in your brain, whatever that
anxiety loop is doesn't go away just
because you have a bigger house or more
money in the bank account or you're in
Bali or wherever it is. That's a
chemical reaction happening inside you
that relates to your past and your DNA
and all that stuff that creates that
soup. And for me, I've always been a
very anxious person. I've always worried
about tomorrow. I rarely enjoy today.
I'm always worrying about what could go
wrong in health or my businesses or with
my family or whatever it is. And so when
I started my business, all I thought
was, I just don't want to work for
someone else. If I can just wake up in
the morning, do my own thing, make 60k a
year, then I'll be happy. So I got that.
And then it was once I make a million
dollars a year and I can buy a house.
Well, I got that. And so on and so on
and so on all the way up to at one point
being worth over a billion dollars. by
the way should redo the title of the
book from Briista to billionaire. Now
it's former billionaire because our
stock went down. But you know it didn't
change anything. Like I'm still just as
anxious as ever. I remember a month ago
I had this day where I was sitting in
the sauna and I was stressing about a
bunch of business problems and money
things and I had this m I stopped myself
and I was like wait a minute like 10
years ago I had all the same thoughts
and I was stressed out about similar
kinds of problems and our revenue was
20 million bucks or 15 million bucks.
Now we're at, you know, almost 300
million and I'm still stressed about the
same things. And the saddest part was as
I met more and more wealthier people all
the way up to multi-billionaires, I
realized they were all still comparing
themselves to their peers, competing
over who has what and tracking stuff and
still unhappy. That anxiety loop or
depression was still in their brain. Uh,
I remember I had this moment where I met
this guy who is a multi-billionaire,
singledigit multi-billionaire, and he
goes, "Oh, Jeff Bezos, he's just so
[__] rich." And I was like, "Wait,
like what what do you mean you're worth
like $5 billion? Like, what can what can
he do that you can't?" And he goes, "He
can buy a super yacht." And it's like,
"What?" like and you know you can look
at that guy and you can say oh that's a
wacko and all the other stuff but the
reality is that we're all just comparing
ourselves to our peers whatever our
peers have that we don't we feel hard
done by and I remember just thinking
like oh my god how do I not how do I
avoid becoming this and that that's the
scary reality is no matter how lucky you
are I mean we're all so fortunate we
live in uh you know for me I live in
Canada I have every opportunity
that I ever could have hoped for. And
there's people all over the world who
have nowhere near what I had growing up.
And yet I felt hard done by because in
my neighborhood I was the poor kid. I
wasn't poor globally. I wasn't even poor
based on Canada, but all my friends had
big screen TVs and would go to Hawaii
and I never got to do any of that stuff.
My parents were stressed about money. So
I feel hard done by. There's a phrase a
friend's financial adviser once shared.
the Joneses are doing really well
and that's hard to get over. What um so
what changes did you make to just be
happier? You know, it's hard to give up
money. It's hard to give up more money
you could make. It's hard to give up
things that you know that that money
buys, I guess. Just so what what did you
change? Well, there's a few things. I
mean, one was reframing money to some
degree to have it be something that
wasn't just about feathering my own nest
and making it better. So, for example, I
I was talking to a friend who's very
wealthy and I was kind of saying like,
you know, I I all the feelings I
described of, you know, have all this
and yet I don't feel better. And he
said, well, you know, what are you
working for? And I said, "Well, I guess
I'm just working for the numbers to get
bigger and, you know, have more
employees and, you know, that's nice.
Like, our businesses do good things in
the world and help more people and
stuff, but ultimately it's just to pile
up cash." And he said, you know, I've
reframed it so that all my money, 90% of
my money plus goes into my philanthropic
foundation and then it gets given away
to great causes. So when I think about
working really hard or losing a deal or
a investment going well, the win isn't
for me. The win is about doing something
good. So, so I did that and that
definitely helped. I also stopped
spending as much money. I found that,
you know, the more stuff I had, the more
houses I had, the more people that
directly work for me to manage all that
stuff, the less happy I was. You know, I
was kind of owned by my stuff. And then
I also do a really I work really hard
not to have people I I try not to beat
people over the head with it. Like I
drive a normal car. I don't bring people
to my house until I know them really
really well. I meet them on neutral
ground. Like I meet them in a cafe. I
dress like a schmo. You know, I just try
not to be, you know, a weird out of
touch rich person. Um, but the biggest
thing, which is kind of a weird answer,
is actually medicating myself. So,
basically, like all my life, I've been
really anxious and in 2020, I remember I
was watching a movie with my ex-wife and
I was looping on, you know, I need to
respond to this email. If I don't
respond to that email, this person's
going to be mad. And then I realized
that I was watching a movie for the last
20 minutes and I didn't know anything
about what was happening in the movie.
And then I was going, "Oh my god, my my
wife is going to be mad at me. We're
going to get in a fight." And, you know,
I'm projecting all this negative stuff.
And in that moment, I was like, "Okay,
maybe I do need to, you know, try an
SSRI or something. This is not
sustainable." And so, I went to my
doctor and I got prescribed with one.
And I remember I was so scared of it
that I cut it into 10 pieces. I said,
"I'm just going to take a tiny little
piece." And it took me six months after
that to try any. But I started taking
these pieces every day. And I just
noticed that within about three or four
days, it was like someone had turned
down the volume on the nasty voice
inside of me doing all that. And for the
first time in my life, I felt relief. I,
you know, no amount of money or success
or attention or anything else had done
what this little tiny yellow pill could
do for my mental state. And so now I've
been on an SSRI for four and a half
years or something like that. And then I
also started medicating my ADHD. And I
would say that my brain went from Times
Square to a quiet library. And I think a
lot of people are scared of that. But
ultimately, most people are acting out
something that's going on inside of
them. You know, there's a trauma or
something medically going on and that's
creating this anxiety, this depression,
this feeling. and addressing that is so
much more important than trying to get
praise from the external world. Wow,
that is really powerful. I really I'm
really thankful you're sharing this. The
advice most people hear, you know, like
the general I don't know culture is just
like no, don't take meds, don't take
don't medicate yourself. You're going to
you're I don't know there's all these
downsides, all this risk. The pharma
industry is trying to make money. I love
this other perspective of it. It's
actually really effective and actually
makes a big difference in your life and
it may be the only solution. Well, it's
funny because if you have a headache, I
don't think many people say, "Oh, don't
don't take Tylenol. You know, you're
benefiting Johnson and Johnson big
pharma." They go, "Yeah, you know, you
take a Tylenol when you have a
headache." Or a lot of people have
seasonal allergies and they take
antihistamines. And they forget that
histamine is not just in your nose.
Histamine's in your brain and everywhere
in your body. And so when you take an
antihistamine or a even a Tylenol,
you're changing your brain. You're
changing the way you think. you're
changing everything. And yet, for some
reason, people are so scared, myself
included, of taking an SSRI or similar
medication to treat something that is
ruining their life. Like anxiety was
ruining my life. Every minute of every
day, I was convinced that something
terrible was about to happen. And even
now, medicated, I still have that voice.
It's not like that that bene that
frankly beneficial voice that helps you
grow your business or whatever becomes
unproductive at a certain point and I
think that it is it's wonderful to be
able to actually just get a little bit
of solace from it. Wow. For folks that I
imagine many folks listening are like,
"Oh man, I should really explore this."
What's the best way to explore is to
talk to your primary care physician
physician? Yeah, I think talking to your
doctor and one one note I think a lot of
people miss is what I I was so scared of
side effects because you hear about all
these horrific side effects of, you
know, people lose their libido and feel
terrible and stuff. And so I looked into
it and a lot of the side effects are due
to the way that people metabolize
different drugs. And so you can actually
do your 23 and me u or similar DNA test
and you can find out how you metabolize
different SSRIs. And then I chose one
that I could metabolize well. And so
I've had no side effects or problems.
And I know every time I mention this, I
get a lot of people that say exactly
what you say, you know, big pharma and
all this other stuff. But I just ask
everyone listening, if you take a
Tylenol or you take an antihistamine or
other medications, I don't know why, you
know, something that can be so
profoundly helpful is something that
people need to be afraid of. Amazing.
Andrew, we've covered so much ground. I
love the spectrum of topics we've gone
after. Is there anything else that you
wanted to share? Anything you wanted to
double down on? Any last nugget you want
to leave listeners with before we get to
a very exciting lightning round? So one
one thing um that was kind of shocking
for me was I was doing my doctor asked
me to get a cognitive test not because I
had any problem but he said look it's
really important to get a baseline in
your 30s because then as you age we can
make sure that you're not getting
Alzheimer's or dementia or whatever. So
I go and I do this uh test with the
neurologist and she asked me a bunch of
questions you know it's remember these
10 digits and say them backwards and all
this stuff. And finally, when I got my
test results back, she said, "Look, your
crystallized intelligence, your ability
to remember stuff long range is totally
fine. You're you're above average. Your
short-term memory, your working memory
is 10th percentile. Very, very bad. And
you probably should get checked for
ADHD." And I was like, "Nope, there's no
way I don't have ADHD. I'm organized.
you know, I've got to-do lists. I built
a business. You know, I wasn't the hyper
kid in school or anything like that. And
she said, "Well, look, just humor me.
Just go get tested." And so, I went
through this crazy process. They they
were um you know, you can go online and
just quickly get tested or whatever, but
um I went through this really really,
you know, like kind of fiveday process
to get tested. And it turned out that I
do have it. And it's really interesting
because if you take the normal
population, about 5% of people have
ADHD, but about 30% of entrepreneurs
have ADHD. And many entrepreneurs I
talked to, they love new things. They
love jumping around between a million
different topics. They're an inch deep
and a mile wide like I described. And
they describe themselves as
unemployable.
And I frankly I remember I was so
skeptical of ADHD that when my
girlfriend told me a friend of hers got
diagnosed with it, I sarcastically said,
"Oh, good. She better take some meth."
Right? Talking about stimulant drugs. So
I previously I was very very skeptical
of ADHD. But it is a real brain
disorder. If you actually dig into it,
it's very a very real thing, very
objective that people have poor
executive function. And for me, it's
given me a lot more empathy for myself
and my behaviors because at work, if you
have ADHD, you can delegate to other
people and build systems to get around
your disability. But at home, that's
where it really plays out. And so for
me, it's like my girlfriend asks me to
take the garbage out, and I say, "Of
course." And then I forget three times
in a row. and she views that as you are
being very hurtful and you're not caring
for me and it causes, you know, all
sorts of different problems at home. And
so for me, not only did it make my work
life better because I was more focused,
but it actually really helped me in my
personal life and it made me feel not
broken. I always felt a bit broken. I
couldn't put my finger on why, but I
just went, I'm not good at doing all the
things everyone else seems to be able to
do. No problem. And so I think
especially because you have an
entrepreneur audience. I think a lot of
entrepreneurs should consider getting
checked for ADHD. Just go and chat GPT
says ask me a bunch of questions and
tell me if you think I might have it.
But I was very surprised and that's been
really impactful for me too. Man, this
garbage story is uh very descriptive of
my life and so I'm going to do this. Oh
boy. Uh there's kind of this implication
that it's good to know this, right? like
people would be like it feels scary to
feel like oh [__] I might get diagnosed
with ADHD. Your advice I imagine is like
you'd actually it's better to know and
you could because you could do stuff
about it. Totally. I think it's uh it's
like any medical thing, right? It's like
uh there's an Alzheimer's gene, right?
And if you know you uh have it, there's
a lot you can do to slow the disease or
prevent maybe getting it or whatever.
It's always better to know even if you
don't medicate. I think there's a lot of
lifestyle interventions, dietary
interventions, and just things you can
do to make your life easier. Even if
it's just explaining to your partner,
hey, I need things to be explained to me
this way so that I can be effective in
loving you. Beautiful. Okay. Well,
Andrew, with that, we've reached our
very exciting lightning round. I've got
five questions for you. Are you ready?
Let's go. First question, what are two
or three books that you find yourself
recommending most to other people? If I
could only recommend two, I would
recommend The Laws of Human Nature by
Robert Green. It's basically like a
compendium of every single type of
personality disorder or psychological
effect. How do people warp their minds
to make bad decisions? Uh what is a
narcissist? What is a psychopath? All
that kind of stuff. And Robert Green
does such a great job of telling all
that in a really engaging way by using
storytelling. So every single chapter
has a story about someone with that
personality disorder. Um, so I love that
book. The other one that I love is a
book by Felix Dennis called How to Get
Rich. It's hilarious because the whole
book starts out saying, "I got rich and
I regret it and I wish that I'd become a
poet and instead he went off and he
built this huge publishing empire,
became a poet in his 60s, and then he
died of throat cancer." So it's his
story. He basically says, "I'll tell you
how to build the business even though
you probably shouldn't." And I read that
when I was in my 20s and I found it so
exciting and inspiring and then I
recently reread it and I was like, "Oh
my god, why didn't I listen to this
guy?" Like everything he said came true.
Next question. Do you have a favorite
recent movie or TV show that you have
really enjoyed? I love Challengers. Uh I
don't know if you've seen it, but it's
amazingly acted, amazing cinematography,
and it's like this amazing uh like
romantic triad tennis movie. Really,
really good. Do you have a favorite
product you recently discovered that you
really love? Uh, you already mentioned
Limitless. Is there anything else? I'm
one of those people who really believes
in the idea of a robot vacuum. I've
probably spent like $10,000 on different
robot vacuums over the years, probably
five or six of them. And I finally got
one that actually works. It's called the
Madic Vacuum, M A T IC. And basically, I
think it's like former Google engineers
basically built like a mini Whimo car.
So, it has like machine vision and it
will avoid absolutely everything and
never get tangled and it can mop your
floors and vacuum. I've been super
impressed with it so far. I've got one
of these myself. I completely agree. My
wife loves it, which she I did not
expect. She's like, "Turn that madic
on." It's like very delightful. It has
this little personality and it just does
a really good job. Uh, and I'm not an
investor. That's awesome. I'm a huge
fan. Okay, next question. Do you have a
favorite life motto that you often come
back to find useful in work or in life?
Yeah, my favorite is a quote by Jersey
Gregoric. Um, it's easy choices, hard
life, hard choices, easy life. And I
often find that anytime that I'm making
the easy choice, my life gets hard. And
when I make the hard choice to shut down
the business, fire the person, you know,
say bye to a project that I was excited
about, it's almost always the right
choice and it makes my life a lot
easier. Final question. Okay, so let me
know if this is true. I I found that
when you were a teenager, when you're
running Mac Teens, you interviewed Steve
Jobs at a conference. Is that true? So,
when I was a teenager, I had a tech news
website and I emailed the Apple PR
people and I said, "Hey, could I
interview Steve Jobs and they kind of
laughed at me like they're like, "Yeah,
there's no way you're not going to
interview Steve Jobs, but um hey, why
don't you go to this um tour of the
Apple store?" So, this is no other Apple
stores existed. This is in New York at
Macworld back in like 2004,
no 2003, something like that. And so I
was really excited about that. So, I
show up to go do this tour and there's
like 30 other journalists there and I'm
first in line and this big black SUV
pulls up and this man gets out and the
man is wearing gray New Balance, little
circular John Lennin glasses, the mock
turtleneck and my brain finally puts it
together and I realize it's Steve Jobs
and he walks directly up to me because
I'm first in line and he shakes my my
hand and he says, "Hi, I'm Steve." And
I'm like a quivering mess, you know? I'm
17 years old. I He's my hero. He is my
Jesus. And so I was just so high on
adrenaline that I just started asking
him questions. As soon as we walked in,
I basically just stayed at his side and
I just picked his brain about all sorts
of different stuff. So it's not like I
got to ask him questions about life. I
was asking him about, you know, the new
17inch iMac or whatever. But it was a
pretty cool experience to get to meet
him. Pat is awesome. There's such a
funny thread recently with guests.
Everyone's there's like a Steve Jobs
connection for the past couple months of
guests. Uh that's an awesome story. It
just shows how you, you know, it wasn't
luck you made this happen. You got there
first first in line. The lesson for me
was ask big and maybe you'll get
something great. You know, ask for ask
for amazing, you'll get something great,
which which I did. The uh door door in
the face technique, I think people call
it. Yeah. Andrew, this was incredible.
Two final questions. Where can folks
find you if they want to reach out? I
know you're buying companies, investing
in companies. So, just talk about what
you're looking for there in case people
are like, "Oh, this is me." And then
finally, how can listeners be useful to
you? Yeah, my my business is Tiny
tiny.com
and we buy businesses. Uh we we
basically when we sold the business, we
hated it. We went through this process
where we talked to all these douchebags
that were private, you know, ran private
equity firms and would show up in our
office in suits and, you know, use a
bunch of words we didn't understand. And
we ended up uh going, man, why can't we
just sell to somebody who's like us? And
so we basically started Tiny to become
the buyer uh we wish we could have sold
to. And uh we're looking for businesses
that have some of the qualities I
mentioned before. So, you know, really
high quality businesses that do
something positive in the world and have
happy customers, happy employees, and
some kind of competitive advantage that
will make them continue into the future.
So, we own like Aeropress,
uh, Letterbox, uh, Dribble, which is
like a design social network, whole
bunch of businesses like that. So, if
somebody uh, is thinking about selling
their business, uh, definitely get in
touch. Amazing. Okay. And then how can
listeners be useful to you if it's not
just that? I just would say if there's
anyone really interesting coming to
Victoria, Canada, which is where I live,
send me an email and would love to have
coffee with you. I just I I the reason I
love going on podcasts is because I get
to meet so many interesting people both
randomly, like if I'm in a cafe and
someone sees me and says hi, I often
make a lot of friends that way or if
someone comes to my hometown. So, yeah,
just get in touch. Amazing. Andrew,
thank you so much for being here. Yeah,
thanks dude. That was fun. Bye,
everyone.
Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.